Bump v1.25 (#2858)
MultiQC/MultiQC: CHANGELOG.md

  "R2": "_R2"
```

It will tell MultiQC that `SAMPLE_R1` and `SAMPLE_R2` should be grouped together into `SAMPLE`. For the modules that have only data for `SAMPLE_R1` and `SAMPLE_R2` - e.g. FastQC - `SAMPLE` will be generated by merging together the data from `SAMPLE_R1` and `SAMPLE_R2`, while individual sample data can be seen by "expanding" a table row.

The way a module merges sample groups for each specific metric can be specified in the module code, e.g.:

```python
self.general_stats_addcols(
    ...,
    group_samples_config=SampleGroupingConfig(
        cols_to_sum=[ColumnKeyT("total_sequences"), ...],
        cols_to_weighted_average=[
            (ColumnKeyT("percent_gc"), ColumnKeyT("total_sequences")),
            (ColumnKeyT("avg_sequence_length"), ColumnKeyT("total_sequences")),
            ...
        ],
        extra_functions=...,
    )
)
```

For configuration, more sophisticated patterns are supported such as listing multiple strings, or using regular expression with `type: regex`:

```yaml
table_sample_merge:
  "Read 1":
    - "_R1"
    - type: regex
      pattern: "[_.-][rR]?1$"
  "Read 2":
    - "_R2"
    - type: regex
      pattern: "[_.-][rR]?2$"

> ```

Reviewer: This is good, but I think too much detail for the changelog. It's all written in the docs, so better to just point to the relevant sections in the docs.

Also, need to mention here that it's not enabled by default. So:

1. Explain what it is, with the changelog - as you have done ✅ 
2. Name the new config option, say that it's opt-in for now though will be on by default in a future release. Link to the docs about configuration setting for more detail.
3. Explain briefly that modules must independently add support - that we've done one or two and would like to do more, please let us know which modules should do this by creating an issue. Link to the docs about Python functionality and support.

Author: Updated!

> Another worthy addition is the box plot support in custom content, see [2847](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2847) for configuration examples.

Reviewer: Maybe can tweak this a little after the above is done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new box plot plot type, added in v1.21, are now available to use with custom content! See [2847](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2847) for configuration examples.
```

# MultiQC Version History

## [MultiQC v1.25](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/releases/tag/v1.25) - 2024-09-16

### Highlights - sample grouping

New feature: grouping samples in the General Statistics table.

<img width="400" src="docs/images/changelog/v1.25-grouping-samples.png">

> Some modules - prominently FastQC - may produce multiple results per sample, e.g. for the forward and the reverse reads. To group such results in the table together, a new [configuration option](docs/core/reports/customisation.md#sample-grouping) is introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some modules - prominently FastQC - may produce multiple results per sample, e.g. for the forward and the reverse reads. To group such results in the table together, a new [configuration option](https://multiqc.info/docs/reports/customisation/#sample-grouping) is introduced.
```

> It's opt-in, but will be on by default in the future releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently opt-in, you'll need to set `table_sample_merge` in a MultiQC config file to use (see docs above). **We'd love to hear your feedback!** We hope to enable it by default for common file suffix patterns in a future release.
```

> Because MultiQC needs to know how to merge each column (sum, average, etc), each module must implement it independenly. Currently it's supported by the FastQC and Cutadapt modules. To add it into other modules, follow the [development documentation](docs/core/development/modules.md#grouping-samples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because MultiQC needs to know how to merge each column (sum, average, etc), each module must implement it independently. Currently it's supported by the FastQC and Cutadapt modules. If you'd like support added to another module, please let us know in a GitHub issue. Details of how to add it into module code can be found in the [moduel development documentation](https://multiqc.info/docs/development/modules/#grouping-samples).
```

### Highlights - box plots in custom content

The new box plot plot type, added in v1.21, are now available to use with custom content! See [2847](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2847) for configuration examples.

### New modules

- Add UMICollapse module ([#2814](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2814))

### Updates

- Group read pairs in general stats ([#2794](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2794), [#2848](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2848))
- Support boxplot in custom content ([#2847](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2847))
- Allow `x_band`, `x_lines`, `x_minrange` for any plot type (specifically, scatter plots) ([#2851](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2851))
- When both `contents` and `contents_re` are specified in a search patterns, treat it as logical AND ([#2828](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2828))
- Add UMICollapse module ([#2814](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2814))

### Module updates

- NanoStat: support multi-sample logs ([#2852](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2852))

> - Samtools coverage: suppot `exclude_contigs` and `include_contigs` ([#2840](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2840))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Samtools coverage: support `exclude_contigs` and `include_contigs` ([#2840](https://github.com/MultiQC/MultiQC/pull/2840))
```
